Facing ruthless cruelty,
man does not give in to tigers
or hyenas.
Arthur Schopenhauer
Principles are principles,
even if the streets run with blood.
Rudyard Kipling
Police! Don't move.
Show me your hands!
Call in backup!
On your knees!
Hands behind your back!
Don't move!
I was still sleeping
when they broke down the door.
At least 20 of them.
-What did they find?
-Nothing.
Just a gun.
It had been there for a long time.
I'd already seen it
while putting groceries away.
They were disappointed.
Mom, what did they say to you?
They said, "Ma'am, your husband
and other men have been arrested."
Well, he's done for.
I didn't know you were here.
I got here two days ago.
Does it take something like this
for you to come see me?
TIGERS
PRISON SERVICE
HYENAS
POLICE FORCE
TIGERS AND HYENAS
The Fontainebleau Gang trial
begins today in Paris.
The trial will last three weeks.
The four gang members,
arrested a year ago
before a fresh robbery attempt,
are accused of murdering two officers
during the attack on a Shielder van.
Among them, repeat offender Chérif Zaoui.
Hello.
Ladies and gentlemen,
what you just saw
was footage from the robbery
which cost the lives
of two brave police officers
who were called to the scene.
Their vehicle was riddled with bullets
from military-grade guns.
The guns that were fired
were the same ones
found one month later in the hotel room
where this very same gang
was preparing to carry out
their next attack.
Excuse me, Your Honor,
but my client, Mr. Zaoui,
was not present in this room
at the time of arrest.
You've just seen the video.
The gang is made up of five members.
Four people stand before us in the dock.
The firth alleged member
was shot dead by the police
during an operation,
when he grabbed a firearm.
I must not have been clear.
So let me ask again.
Was my client, Mr. Chérif Zaoui,
present in the hotel room
when they were arrested?
Could he be seen on CCTV footage
in the vicinity of the hotel?
Your client was photographed
alongside two members of the group
48 hours before his arrest,
in a cafe near Paris.
And this was while he was on the run
following the attack
on an armored van in Switzerland.
Let's stick to this case.
The defendants may know each other
but does that prove Mr. Zaoui
was at the scene of the video
or with the people beside him today?
The people, who, may I remind you,
were arrested together.
All you have is a photo?
Does that mean everybody
who has crossed paths with these people
are potential accomplices?
Let me remind this court
that it was Ousmane Diop,
Karim Taïeb and Serge Lamy
who were arrested together in a hotel room
with weapons that had already been used.
Any attempt to link my client to this case
is therefore misleading.
Thank you, Your Honor.
We will resume proceedings
after a one-hour break.
Want something to eat?
Cigarettes maybe?
No, I already have cigarettes.
Go get me a sandwich.
-Your sandwich, sir.
-Thanks.
How's he doing?
Is he tired?
No, he's fine.
He's determined to fight his case.
He has the energy.
He doesn't seem defeated.
Maybe so, but he's not so young anymore.
I know what he's like.
-One coffee.
-Thanks.
You know, Malik,
I think I'll go home.
I can't bear to see him like this.
Or him to see me like this.
It'll destroy the both of us.
-And you...
-What about me?
Go back to Spain.
There's no point in staying here.
The cards have been dealt.
You have your own life to live.
Serge made his choice.
You can't help him now.
You don't owe him anything.
Even if you think you do.
Get out of here.
Come see me when it's all over.
Are you with us?
Here.
It's a white Ford Transit van.
With graffiti,
a van with an 89 number plate.
Parked at the supermarket in Livry-Gargan.
On Friday, my guys smashed the CCTV cams.
They won't fix them until Monday,
so you've got the whole weekend.
Cool. Will do.
Can we chill now? Drink or hookah?
I'd have loved to,
but I'm up early tomorrow.
-No way.
-Sorry.
But it's my birthday. Come on.
Come here. Check it out.
We're gonna have fun.
Having balance troubles?
I'm not drunk.
I just can't walk in these heels.
Where you you going? Need a lift home?
No, I'm fine, thanks.
-I'll take you home.
-I want to go home.
That's what I'm saying.
I'll drop you off.
-You swear?
-Malik!
-I swear.
Wait for me here.
I'll say goodbye to him.
Next time, we'll have some real fun.
It's okay, bro, you had to leave early,
and you stayed until closing time.
Not bad for a birthday, right?
-What's the matter? Does it hurt?
-Yes.
These heels are killing me.
Want me to carry you?
Really?
If you want me to.
-You sure? You okay?
-Yes.
Go!
-Oh, wow, damn it.
-Stop it.
You sure are heavy.
Shut up!
Feeling better?
Yeah. Thanks a lot.
-Is this your car?
-Yeah.
I don't get it.
What's with the license plate?
I live in Spain.
What's your name?
Estelle. And yours?
Malik.
Want me to give you a lift?
-Yes, okay.
-Yes?
Hello?
Malik?
This is Iris Valois.
I'm Chérif Zaoui's lawyer.
Would it be possible to meet?
Why?
I'd rather speak to you about it
in person.
-When?
-Right away.
It's also about your stepfather.
Malik?
Would you like a coffee?
Please, take a seat.
How did you get my number?
We all have our own phone book.
Go ahead.
I know it's very early.
And you don't spend your nights alone.
Someone must be disappointed. Sorry.
I'll get straight to the point.
My client would like to make you an offer.
-I don't know Chérif.
-He doesn't know you either.
Why would I talk to a robber
accused of killing cops?
You talk to Serge Lamy, don't you?
My client has nothing to do
with this affair.
If you say so.
Serge, Chérif and the others are screwed,
everyone knows it.
But my client has nothing to do with
the group in the dock.
He always refused to work with them.
Not professional enough, too violent.
But the courts have decided otherwise.
And?
My client can help Serge Lamy.
He knows your connection.
Serge is my stepfather. That's no secret.
It's no secret
he was convicted for murder either.
In the minds of jury,
seeing as he's already killed once...
he's obviously the one
that shot the police officers.
He'll spend his life in prison.
So even if he could afford
the very best lawyers in the country
or even the world,
I don't see how
he could get out of this.
So you think it's a losing battle.
Why would I waste my time
listening to some offer?
Serge isn't just your stepfather.
He did something for you.
In that cafe in Sartrouville.
You were in deep shit
and he sacrificed himself for you.
Who told you that?
Paris is a very small city.
I know a lot of thugs. More than you do.
I know what you do.
You smuggle in from Spain.
You've been supporting your mom
for the past year.
You've been bringing food to your stepdad.
If you really want to help them,
isn't now a good time
to consider this kind of offer?
I think we're done here.
Call me back if you change your mind.
No, I won't change my mind.
It's funny. I told him you'd say no.
You know why?
Because he's your stepfather,
not your biological father.
So there's no reason
for your to have inherited his bravery.
I didn't know he was your wife's son.
Or we'd have settled things differently.
You'll need to keep an eye on him.
This is my territory.
I can't let him get away with it.
You'd do the same if you were me.
I don't sell drugs.
I don't have these issues.
You know what I mean.
You have your own team problems.
Except that we...
don't take guys down into the cellar.
Once again, I'm within my rights.
We have friends in common.
You're respected.
And I'm sitting on cash here.
But you've got to keep your eye on him.
If he ever does that again,
he won't get off so lightly.
Is that so?
What's the matter?
Did you think I was going to say sorry?
There's something you don't understand.
I make the decisions around here, not you.
What do I have to do?
You have to find someone.
And bring them back to France.
I know this is Avi's place.
I'll be outside.
Who are you?
-Are you Avi?
-Who are you?
I'm here on behalf of Chérif.
Do you think I'm an idiot?
-His lawyer sent me.
-What for?
She's got a message for you.
I'm with him now. Shall I put him on?
Yes?
I need to discuss it with him?
Who are you, really?
I'm nobody.
Then why show up dressed like a Colombian?
I'm here because I'm busted in France.
And you've come to talk business.
Who are you?
A lost kid from the ghetto?
-Is Chérif your mentor or something?
-I don't know him.
Then what's the deal?
So you rob trucks
without knowing their cargo
and are sick of only finding boxes of gum.
Then a thug sentenced to life in jail
approaches you with a golden ticket.
Only that no longer exists.
But you bought it, right?
My stepfather is in the dock with Chérif.
-Who's your stepfather?
-Serge Lamy.
-All right.
-I just want to help him.
And how will taking on some job help him?
All I know
is what the lawyer told us both.
I know no more than you. So either
come listen to her or I'll go back alone.
Just save me the lecture, I'm not a kid.
My clients can be eccentric, but this...
I'm not your client. Plus, I'm suspicious.
If all your clients were like me,
you'd only have domestic violence cases.
I've traveled 2,000 miles
to listen to you.
And I'm not the most patient of people.
Chérif has a job to offer you.
Fifteen million euros.
In cash. Untraceable.
Chérif only wants two million.
Those who come on board
will share the rest.
What's the catch?
Chérif wants you to help him escape,
along with one other inmate.
His stepfather.
And one more thing.
You'll have to be part of it.
Me? Why's that?
If the job goes ahead,
Chérif wants you to be part of it.
To ensure trust.
But that's not what we'd agreed on.
Why would I get into something like this?
I'm just telling you
what he told me to say.
You either in, or there's no job.
That wasn't the deal.
I just had to get him here.
You got screwed over, buddy.
What's in it for you?
Are you in love with him or what?
You think only men
are interested in money?
I know he's no angel, but my client
was not part of that armed robbery.
We just want to bring him down
and I like to fight the system.
If we add money, then I'm smiling.
But we're not here to discuss my reasons.
I can't leave this place
without an answer.
My client made me promise.
Your client is a childhood friend of mine.
We've done dozens of jobs as a team.
But I refuse to take the fall for him.
Nobody puts that kind of pressure on me.
What's stopping you from deciding?
He wants a yes or a no
before providing the details?
-Yes.
-That doesn't work for me.
I like to know
what I'm getting myself into.
And to know the number of men I'll need.
Chérif says you'll need four men.
Not so easy to find nowadays.
Four solid men
to get into serious trouble.
A robbery and a break-out.
I'm not sure I'll be able to.
I'll let you check that out.
But you'd better hurry.
The job is next Saturday.
Then, you'll have one week
to get them out.
Angel, you've got a call from France.
Hello?
Who?
I called a friend.
He'll be there tomorrow.
What friend?
A friend.
Is he down?
I don't know. We'll see.
So what do we do?
The whole thing stinks.
What are you thinking?
I'm ready to do it.
Just like that?
A leap in the dark.
Without knowing the details.
I see you're pumped.
What are you? A dealer?
Moving drugs? A craftsman?
What do you know about heists?
Nothing.
Where about is the Saint-Martin Canal?
-That way?
-Over there.
-Right?
-Why?
I want to skip stones.
Like in the movie Amélie.
It'll help me focus.
Wait for me at your place.
Don't move until you hear from me.
Scandinavian, 1954, exactly.
-It would work.
-Yes, I think so.
-How much is it?
-3,200 euros.
Is that your best price?
-Sorry?
-Is that your best price?
Yes, it is.
Okay.
Do your customers know that the nerdy boss
hit the cash vault
in Arceuil in 2002?
No, but if you speak any louder,
then they might.
So that's what you did with the cash?
I came across a Le Corbusier book in jail.
I liked it and made it my career.
Le Corbusier is great, you know?
Why are you here?
-Am I not allowed to buy a sofa?
-I know that's not why you're here.
It's huge.
-I sell sofas now, Avi.
-Really huge.
How much?
Around three million each.
Francs?
Euros.
That's unheard of these days.
You think I'd have come out
of hiding if not?
Is this your plan?
No. Chérif's.
Chérif is not as his best.
You're desperate.
-No.
-Yes. You have nobody else.
I'm not going to lie. It's been ten years.
Why me?
Competent guys
are hard to find these days.
Nobody can play people like you do.
Enough flattery.
-Who else have you asked?
-No one, yet.
How long do you need to decide?
Is two days okay?
I don't want to see you around here again.
Hey, big shot!
What are you doing here?
Took you long enough.
Huh?
Nice place you've got.
Hey, Avi?
Nice neighborhood. Hop on.
Come on.
CAFÉ DES INDES
INDIAN RESTAURANT
I gunned it. No one followed us.
Angel, Malik. Malik, Angel.
Take a seat.
I don't drink, thanks.
You don't drink alcohol?
I'm not here for a drink.
I want to know
if we're working together or not.
I brought us together. Yes or no?
I'm not here to waste time.
You're not here to what?
Can we trust you?
Or will you land us in the slammer?
Believe what you want.
Why do you want to work with us?
I'm here for my stepfather.
Why do you give a shit about him?
He's just your mother's man, not your dad.
You're gonna risk it all for him?
-I owe him.
-You owe him what?
Huh?
He took out some guys for me.
Okay, tell us.
When I was a kid,
I was kidnapped and tortured for a week.
When Serge found out,
he killed them and got 17 years for me.
He destroyed his life for me.
That's why I owe him.
Give this back to me unloaded.
What?
You see that?
I wasn't raised by just anyone.
So you're doing this out of honor?
That's nice.
That way we can keep his share.
He's not in it for the money.
Take your cape and mask
and wait outside, Zorro.
Go on.
-It's fine by me.
-Is it?
I'm not vouching for anyone
but he's not in it for the cash.
How many kids his age
step up for the right reasons?
Who will our fourth man be?
The fourth man...
Azzedine.
Call the shark and tell her it's on.
How did you find me?
-What?
-How did you find me here?
You've got a lot to learn.
A drug dealer
with no signal jammer on board?
-So?
-I didn't read it.
Of course you didn't.
Are you illiterate too?
We're robbing the kickback
from Brice Traoré's family.
Who's that?
-The Arsenal striker.
-A machine.
He's 19 and scored 29 goals in one season.
Paris wants to sign him for 90 million.
His family will get 15 million.
His father is his agent.
It's part of the contact.
The kickback will be paid in cash.
Isn't that insane?
Oh, Chérif.
Good day.
The cash will go from a downtown bank
to their suburb home.
So we wait for the cash drop-off
and hold up the family?
No, there's a huge team on-site.
And with the connections he has
the entire hood will be on our back.
How are you?
-We are looking for vehicles...
-How many cars?
-I don't know.
-There'll be armed security, for sure.
Knowing the Qataris, there'll be a van.
We need to locate the rental company.
There can't be that many around Paris.
Ahmed Zermani?
That's right. Pleased to meet you.
Before we see the vans, please remind me
-who you were working for.
-Hello, Bachir Zermani.
We are looking for
ultra-secure vehicles...
The Algerian government.
And how did you find out about us?
From a close friend who provides security
for the Emir of Qatar.
We've never actually worked with him.
Oh, my mistake.
Commercial vehicles, naturally.
We're looking for...
Victor Desmaret.
While working for the Prime Minister,
I made some contacts
with my counterparts in the Gulf,
mainly Qataris.
Do you know Hamad?
He was the former head of security.
Who was then replaced
by Bachir El-Alamani.
Sorry, I just wanted check
we were talking about the same guy.
Bachir is an outstanding client.
I'm renting him a converted Vito
and some cars next week.
Incredible vehicles.
He told me about them.
I'd love to take a look for myself.
Of course. Here it is.
Bulletproof windows
that can withstand a .44 caliber.
VR10 certified.
And with 200 horsepower.
It certainly looks robust.
When is it available?
-How do we stop the van?
-With construction equipment?
No, it's not strong enough.
We'd kill people on impact.
-We shoot the tires.
-No.
-Is it an armored van or not?
-A reinforced Mercedes.
We're talking a security convoy.
Probably highly trained guys.
They wouldn't open fire in their country
but France isn't going to stone them
if they do here.
After leaving the bank downtown,
it's 10 minutes to reach the ring road.
The place will be crawling with cops.
We won't stand a chance.
Too much traffic. Too many tourists.
They'll continue on
from Maillot to La Chapelle.
That's where we make our move.
We block them and have an exit route.
And they're stuck.
How do you block a ring road?
At the right time and the right place?
-Easy.
-What's easy?
I'll give you a clue. Wedding.
Shit!
-Don't you get it?
-No, we're dumb.
Every weekend there are Arab weddings
with huge convoys.
-We slip into the convoy.
-And divert it.
That way, we control the traffic.
Do you have guys who can do that?
Got a girlfriend?
-You don't give a shit.
-Or friends, whatever.
-I do.
-No, you don't give a shit.
We don't have to see each other, you know?
I tell you everything about my life
and you stay silent.
Are you in trouble?
We don't see each other.
If I'm asking too much, we'll end it.
We had a good time together at least.
My stepfather is in court right now.
He'll likely get a huge sentence
and die in prison.
Spend the night with someone you know.
I don't feel like talking about it,
it's too upsetting.
Leave your phone there so it pings.
-I'm sorry.
-Don't be.
If things go to shit,
that'll be your alibi.
-All good?
-Not yet.
What?
-We didn't pray yet.
-Are you serious?
-Are you still superstitious?
-Of course.
People are struggling
while we're hitting several million.
It'll ward off the evil eye.
Come on.
Thank you, Lord, for bringing us together.
Let everything run smoothly.
Let no one get hurt, on either side.
I know you must hate us,
but understand we need to let loose
and make some money.
Deliver us from bad luck and bastards.
-And we'll take care of the rest.
-Amen.
Let's do this.
Are you okay?
Malik, what's going on?
There's movement.
-They're getting out.
-Okay. Copy.
Getting in the cars.
Yalla.
Let's go.
Check this out. What do you think?
An Ettore Sottsass sofa.
A guy in Milan
will sell it to me for 20,000.
Should I take it or not?
It's not a huge margin to make
but it'll look nice in the store
for a few weeks
until we can find a buyer...
Hello?
I can't even breathe
and you're talking about a sofa.
Who buys a sofa for 20,000 euros?
People like you do.
No need to be so stingy.
In half an hour,
you'll be a multi-millionaire.
It is nice, right?
They're exiting the town hall.
I'm at the interchange.
We'll be at the Asnières interchange
in 10 minutes.
Okay, call your buddy.
Okay, you were going.
Okay.
Let's get going.
Let's go!
Remember to honk!
Honk!
Are we all there?
It's okay, I'm coming.
Arriving at Asnières.
Great. All good.
Let's go, we're on the belt.
Copy that. We're at the Auber interchange.
Get closer. At the back.
Okay, guys, we're on our way.
Malik, we have a visual.
Azzedine, keep the convoy moving.
They're behind me, almost at my level.
Tunnel ahead.
I'll slow them down.
Okay. I see the tunnel.
-Entering the tunnel.
-Okay.
Let's go.
Malik is entering the tunnel.
Step out. Step out!
Hands on your head!
Hands on the car!
Drop your weapon!
Turn around. On your knees.
Drop the gun.
Drop the gun. Hands behind your back.
On your knees.
Don't move!
Get out!
Get out or I'll kill you!
Move it!
Get out! Come on, move it!
Now!
On the ground!
Hurry!
Stay there!
Freeze!
Don't look at me. Eyes to the floor!
Move!
Angel!
Avi, no!
He was with us, back then,
when we robbed
the Brinks high-security vault.
Chérif et Angel went down for it.
He betrayed us
and used a legal loophole in court.
He sold us out to the Anti-Gang Brigade.
He was a fucking snitch.
-Come on. Get out.
-No.
Come on, get out.
We're not going to hurt you. Come help us.
Come on!
That wasn't the deal!
If you have scores to settle,
you don't involve me!
We'll all go down for your bullshit!
I had nothing to do with that.
I don't want to kill anyone.
It wasn't the deal.
You're right. It wasn't.
What are you doing to do?
Here, take this.
Catch.
You're not ready for next week.
We need to train you up.
You were not ready
in the tunnel.
Another mistake and we're done.
It's my fault.
I should've made you practice more.
I don't want to carry guns anymore. Okay?
How are you going to open
the courthouse doors?
With a magic wand?
I don't want to kill anyone.
Me neither.
Did I blow that bodyguard's head off?
No. I'm not that insane, buddy.
But I will tell you this.
If you don't know
how to use a gun properly,
you'll end up panicking
and killing someone.
If you keep up your Dalai Lama act,
we won't get anywhere.
Or trust me
and we'll get your stepdad out.
I don't trust you anymore.
He doesn't trust us anymore.
We're all in this together now.
People who don't do what we do
will never understand.
Okay, we have eight days
to get some rest and get ready.
7 DAYS TO GO
He's not strong enough to make it.
I disagree. He's resourceful.
His idea to block the cars worked.
He's not strong enough,
I'm telling you.
He'll be fine.
We'll get him ready.
I'll make him strong, you'll see.
I'll take care of it.
Here.
Take your hand off the magazine.
Keep both eyes open.
Focus on the front sight.
Firm.
All right. Let's get to work.
-We'll start over.
-Shit!
We'll start over.
Motherfucker!
Straight ahead. There.
Let's go.
-Jump!
-What?
Are you serious? Avi!
-Calm down.
-It's so cold.
Keep calm.
Breathe deeply.
Here are the commandos.
You guys ready for Ukraine?
Leave him alone. It was good for his head.
Doesn't bother me.
Come eat.
It's good.
Tired?
When you've finished,
you'll do the dishes.
What?
When Avi was your age, he did the dishes.
Isn't that right?
And before you were born, so did I,
for men who are long dead now.
It's tradition.
Maybe you think it's dumb,
but that's the way it is.
Rules from those who came before us.
And here, we obey the rules.
So you'll do the dishes.
6 DAYS TO GO
Thank you for your testimony.
You may sit back down.
Mr. Lamy, please.
You asked if you could address the court.
You have the floor.
After all that's been said and done,
I don't intend to shirk
my responsibilities.
I was hired for a job that went wrong,
but I've always been a professional
by avoiding violence
and relying solely on intimidation.
I did slip up once to defend my family.
Anyway,
I know that won't change the outcome.
I feel sorry
for that policeman's family.
I'm not a murderer. I didn't kill anyone.
I'm not going to lie
and say that I'm a victim.
But I won't give anyone away.
I never have and I'm not going start now.
Before I finish,
I would like to say sorry to my wife.
I had a quiet life,
everything was in order.
She waited 17 years for me
and I promised I'd never mess up again.
And I clearly didn't keep my word.
So I want to say that I'm sorry.
More sorry for her than for myself.
Thank you for letting my speak.
Hello.
ECOCLEAN
LAUNDRY
Hello. Your IDs please.
Thank you.
Do you know this guy?
-What?
-Do you know that guy?
What are you playing at, coming here?
Are you serious?
I haven't heard from you.
You left your phone. I was worried.
You need to leave. Don't come back here.
Don't do this. Not to me.
Either tell me what's going on
or I'll be back everyday.
Tonight I'll explain.
But right now you have to leave.
So?
That place is a nightmare.
There ought to be
three times as many of us, or more still.
I have an idea for getting in,
but getting out is the tricky part.
The courthouse is beside
the old 36 building.
-Isn't it empty now?
-Except for the Anti-Gang Brigade HQ.
By the time we get out,
we'll have the best cops in France
on our tail.
-Along with the rest.
-Did it slip your mind?
Tell me something I don't know.
I'm telling you,
even if we manage to exit the building,
we'll be stuck on an island
crawling with cops.
We need to find a solution.
You used to be quicker off the mark.
No, we used to be quicker off the mark.
We got rusty, goddammit.
-Have you thought about the Seine?
-What Seine?
The river, you fool.
Can't we get away by boat?
Same problem. The Anti-Gang Brigade HQ
is right opposite.
And then adding to that,
the River Brigade...
By the time we get everyone out,
all units will be alerted.
We're screwed either way.
What if they're not alerted?
There are no phones in the courtroom.
Except for the magistrates.
-We'll use a signal jammer.
-Exactly.
We'll wear masks.
A third person secures the area.
We'll control everyone, just like...
A bank robbery.
-There you go.
-A bank robbery.
Again.
4 DAYS TO GO
You've got to go faster.
Boom!
Boom! Go on, aim.
Lift your finger off the trigger.
How do you feel?
It's normal to be scared.
Imagine the worst-case scenario.
The worst thing that could happen.
Accept it. That's what I do.
You know where you're going,
and you know what to do.
Your advantage is that you have a plan.
The others don't.
What I'm about to say
may sound strange.
But don't forget to have fun.
Enjoy this rush of adrenaline.
That kind of rush,
it only happens once in a lifetime.
Angel and I never did this
just for the cash.
It was never just about the money.
We wanted to belong to
this world of legends.
Like tigers and hyenas. Invincible.
So no one could ever bring us down.
Were we ever wrong? Sure.
Were the people we idolized
really bastards?
Yes, most of them.
But no more than those
in your school history books.
If we succeed, we'll go down in history.
Yeah?
-Who are you?
-It doesn't matter.
I saw you in court yesterday.
I'm here to talk about Malik.
What do you want?
He's in big trouble.
He's gonna need you.
3 DAYS TO GO
Hello, we spoke on the phone earlier.
-Hello, sir.
-Hello.
-Thanks for waiting.
-No worries.
As I said on the phone earlier,
a colleague is getting married soon.
We'd like to surprise him
with something that'll blow him away.
How about our most powerful boat?
This one.
A fine specimen. How powerful?
You won't find faster on the Seine.
It's as fast as the police boats.
We'll even give you a pilot.
That's great.
What do you want?
You think I can't see your little scheme?
What scheme?
You're talking to the kid.
What are you planning?
-Why? Are you jealous?
-Yes, I am.
I was never involved in your hold-up.
But the feds dragged me into it
to be their fall guy.
For that lousy job of yours
where I didn't even make a dime.
Maybe, but you're here now.
If you're up to something, I want in.
If not, I'll tell them it was your idea.
Who will they be more interested in?
The ghetto kid or the new Jacques Mesrine?
Hey, big shot. Didn't miss us too much?
-Whose place is this?
-Too many questions.
INCOMING CALL
LAWYER
Hello?
-Hello?
-Yes.
We've got a problem.
The girl? I thought that was settled.
Yes, I talked to him,
but we have another problem.
2 DAYS TO GO
Yes?
This is the last time
you pull this stunt on us.
We're all going to end up in jail
meeting like this.
This is a non-smoking office.
Don't worry, there's no microphone.
We have a team who checks every...
So, what's the problem?
Karim Taïeb is the problem.
Blackmailing Chérif.
He wants in on the plan.
How did he find out?
I don't know, but he wants to escape too.
And? Or else what?
He's threatening Chérif.
That's not our problem.
Just think about it.
Chérif thinks it could be
a great opportunity.
Of course, it's a great opportunity.
That's his specialty.
That's his thing.
The thing he comes up with
when he's in trouble.
If they think
that you want to pull him out too,
maybe they'll check out his connections
which would buy you some time.
It's not such a crazy idea.
We already have the cash.
It's in a safe place.
If we wanted to,
we could split tomorrow and forget Chérif.
Okay?
All right.
But we will
because we're happy to help a friend.
But no one is going to tell us
how to go about it.
Tell Chérif to say okay to him
so the guy keeps quiet.
But between you and me,
we're not taking him.
Very well.
We've also got something to ask of you.
Go ahead.
You're going to have to break an ankle.
Meaning?
The place is full of metal detectors.
It's the only way to get weapons
into the courthouse.
Crutches will do the job.
No, they won't.
We'll need a medical certificate,
X-rays, MRIs...
Something to verify when they check.
Shouldn't be too much damage.
But we can do the leg instead.
It's okay. I'll stick with the ankle.
Do you want me to do it now?
I'll take care of it.
Now you get to struggle for a change.
Spare me your comments.
You know nothing about my life.
That's for sure.
It looks really hard.
You have no idea where I grew up
or what it took
to afford this office
and become the lawyer I am today.
It was harder than planning heists.
Ma'am...
This is the first time I've seen you mad.
-I'm actually very calm.
-Good for you.
-Can I count on you?
-I won't let you down.
Can you say the same?
What we have to do is a lot harder.
Much harder than breaking a bone.
I'd rather be in your shoes than mine.
Of course.
Put your ankle on ice for three hours,
take a spoon,
and gently tap the bone.
It should break on its own
and you won't feel anything.
1 DAY TO GO
Big shot, check this out.
-What is that?
-A pump-action shotgun.
You have two types of rounds.
You choose them with the selector.
Okay?
On the left,
I've put in three black rubber pellets.
Because we'd rather not kill.
Then a round of orange lead pellets.
A bit stronger, more of a punch.
You can fold a box of ammo 30 meters away.
You can take guys down,
break bones and be in control.
On the right, if it's like the States,
I got you some brenneke.
But that's only if things go to shit.
Understood?
I need you to practice.
You need to master the selector.
You've got to memorize the sequence.
Like counting cards at the casino.
Black, black, black.
Orange, orange, orange, orange.
Charger, check.
Battery for the angle grinder, check.
Signal jammer's here too.
Okay.
Do you remember this?
Remember what?
You don't remember? Come on!
It was the first time
you took Chérif and me to the club.
You don't even remember?
It was great.
You had your BMW M3
and your fingerless gloves.
Don't you remember?
You thought you were Ayrton Senna.
We thought he was nuts.
You were with that pretty girl.
What was her name?
-The Spaniard.
-Turn that shit off.
Come on, Angelito.
Where are you going? What's the matter?
You got nothing for me?
El patrón!
Angelito, what's wrong? You shy?
Where are you going?
Won't you dance with me? Come on, buddy.
Get me a bottle of Dom Pé!
-El patrón.
-I don't like dancing.
You want a bottle of William Lawson?
The Pharaoh boys, the Triangle boys.
You've brainwashed him.
Look at him, he dances like an Arab!
Let yourself go, buddy!
My amigo. Come on.
Go on, beat it!
Come on, my latin lover.
Don't have it in you anymore?
Come on, man, you. know the chorus.
Got nothing for me?
Tonight might be our last.
Maybe our last one ever.
Three, four! Touch in the night!
D-DAY
HOSPITALITY - COMMUNITY
DRY CLEANING - HYGIENE
-Hello.
Thank you.
Stop where my colleague is.
Switch off the ignition, please.
Load inspection.
Go ahead.
Do you mind if I use the restroom?
I won't be long.
-Sure.
-Thank you.
ECOCLEAN LAUNDRY
-Hello.
Sir!
You shouldn't be in this area.
Put the gun away.
Step back. Towards the door.
To the door. Move it!
-Go on.
-Don't open yet.
NO SIGNAL
Nobody move!
Everyone, hands up!
Put your guns down!
If you even touch the door,
your colleague is dead.
Hurry up, come on!
If I see a single phone,
blood will be everywhere.
-Drop your weapons.
-Release me!
Let's go.
-Hurry.
-Keep your hands up.
Keep your hands up.
All those wearing gowns,
magistrates, lawyers, everybody up!
Move towards the middle.
Don't touch your gun!
Everyone get to the back.
-Everyone up nice and slowly.
-Let's go.
Hurry up! Come on!
-Free me.
-Shut up!
Get to the back, now.
Move!
Ladies and gentlemen...
Switch off the ignition!
Drop your weapons!
You can't get out!
Bounce!
So?
Fuck!
Get inside!
Get back!
Are you out?
-No.
-What have you got left?
-Just Brennekes.
-Give me some.
-No!
-Got a better idea?
-When you hear it, you run.
-Hear what?
Jump!
Don't shoot, they're unarmed!
You did it!
Hell, yeah!
Angel, Avi, what's going on?
Chill. It's over.
We'll get him out of the country,
don't worry.
If he stays, he'll get exposed
to see his family.
That's not good for us.
You're a good kid.
Mission accomplished.
Police!
Freeze! Hands up!
On the ground!
You too, turn around.
Show me your hands.
Where were you yesterday?
At my place with my girlfriend.
The girl from this morning or another one?
Her name is Estelle.
My bad. So you're monogamous.
I didn't know.
Forgive me for being in love.
Okay, fine.
I hope your lawyer
has a better sense of humor than me.
What lawyer?
Thanks.
You can thank her.
You went to see her.
She wasn't easy to convince.
What did you promise her?
Half.
Count yourself lucky,
I'd have asked for more.
You made a real fool out of me.
I was scared.
I'm sorry about your stepfather.
It's over now.
Well rest up, think about it,
and if it really is over, call me.
So?
So, it looks like we're poor.
Do you want to go to the beach anyway?
I was going to ask.
You dead or what?
Well, buddy,
aren't you going to introduce us?
Avi, Angel. Estelle.
-Hello, miss.
-Hi.
They're...
They're friends of mine.
Good friends.
Very good friends.
-Welcome.
-Thanks.
-Welcome home.
-Thank you.
Well?
Subtitle translation by James Preston